May 25, 2022
What we know about the Uvalde school shooting: attack was planned, posted on Facebook.
At least 19 students and two adults died in a shooting at a South Texas elementary school Tuesday.
Gov. Greg Abbott said on Tuesday that the gunman walked into Robb Elementary School in Uvalde and opened fire with a handgun and possibly a rifle before officers reportedly killed the 18-year-old.
Officials have not revealed a motive for the shooting but have said the shooter was a resident of the community. 
Live updates from Uvalde:Guns used in Uvalde, Texas school shooting legally purchased
Uvalde shooting:Horror at Uvalde school is another chapter in the long legacy of Texas mass shootings
Matthew McConaughey reacts:'What is it that we truly value?' Matthew McConaughey reacts to mass shooting in his hometown
Check back for updates throughout the day on this story as we learn more.
Gov. Greg Abbott said Wednesday that the shooter posted to Facebook three times in the 30 minutes prior to entering the Robbs Elementary School, detailing his plans and posting updates about his planned attack.
Abbott said the gunman — who has been identified as Salvador Ramos, an 18-year-old Uvalde resident — shared on Facebook that he planned to shoot his grandmother, and then provided a later update confirming that he had shot her.
Ramos also said on the social media app that he planned to shoot an elementary school, Abbott said.
Abbott said Wednesday that the remarks were posted publicly to Facebook, but a spokesman with the social media website’s parent company Meta disputed that characterization of the posts.
“The messages Gov. Abbott described were private one-to-one text messages that were discovered after the terrible tragedy occurred,” Meta spokesman Andy Stone said in a statement. “We are closely cooperating with law enforcement in their ongoing investigation.”
A makeshift memorial for the students, families and staff of Robb Elementary School has formed outside the campus after the shooting.
Family, friends and community members came to pay their respects adorning the campus’ welcome sign with bouquets of roses, sunflowers and balloons, American-Statesman reporter Luz Moreno-Lozano reported.
Rosa Gonzalez, who visited the campus Wednesday, said she wanted to show support for her community and her friends who lost their children.
“This is so hard to explain,” she said, fighting back tears. “My kids went to school here. My grandkids went to school here. We never thought this would happen here.”
Families and friends are mourning the loss of the 21 victims of the Uvalde school shooting. According to USA Today reporters, the list of confirmed victims currently includes: 
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton announced that he will be visiting Uvalde on Wednesday to set up a location for the Crime Victims’ Compensation Program to help the families affected by the shooting. He will also be visiting he attorney general office staff members who were affected, according to a news release. 
The CVC program helps crime victims and their immediate families with the financial costs of crime, such as counseling, medical treatment, funerals and loss of income. Victims of the shooting can contact the program at 1-800-983-9933.
Lt. Chris Olivarez, spokesperson for the Texas Department for Public Safety, said all fatalities and injuries took place inside one classroom at Robb Elementary School in Uvalde, according to CNN.
He said law enforcement officers went around the school and eventually forced entry into the classroom where the shooter had barricaded himself and killed 21 people. Multiple children were wounded, but the exact number is unknown.
"It's a small classroom, you can have anywhere from 25 to 30 students in there, plus there were two teachers in there ... It was a classroom setting, a typical classroom setting where you have mass groups of children inside that classroom all together, with nowhere to go," Olivarez told CNN.
Olivarez said all families were notified, and the victims were removed and identified.
The gunman legally purchased two AR rifles in the past two weeks, according to a briefing by state and federal officials provided to Texas officials.
In the briefing provided to the American-Statesman by Sen. John Whitmire, the gunman bought the weapons May 17 and May 20 from a local federal firearms licensee, American-Statesman reporter Tony Plohetski reported.
The weapons were legally purchased at Oasis Outback, the New York Times reported on Wednesday.
The store is along U.S. 90 roughly 3.5 miles northeast of Robb Elementary School.
According to the briefing, one of the guns was in his car at the scene; the other was with his body inside the school, where officials have determined his grandmother worked until 2020. She also was shot and injured before authorities say the gunman went to the campus.
Officials said in the briefing that the suspect bought 375 rounds of 5.56 ammunition on May 18.
How to help Uvalde victims:Blood drives, GoFundMe page set up for victims of Texas school shooting. How you can help.
Uvalde school shooting:How to talk to your kids about the Uvalde school shooting
School shootings:A look at some of the deadliest US school shootings
Changes to gun laws in Texas — often referred to as constitutional carry or permitless carry — took effect in September 2021. 
The law allows handguns to be carried without a permit by Texans age 21 or older with a clean criminal record.  A person can carry a handgun either concealed or carried openly in a holster.
The state already did not require a license to openly carry a long gun, and the open carry of handguns with a permit has been legal since 2016. 
The law did not change where guns are banned in the state, nor did it change background check requirements while purchasing a gun. Firearm purchases through licensed gun dealers require a background check unless the buyer has a license to carry. Gun purchases through private sellers do not require a background check.
Federal law prohibits the possession of a handgun by anyone younger than 18, but does not provide a minimum age for the possession of long guns.
Under federal regulations:
Licensed firearms dealers may not sell or deliver a handgun or ammunition to anyone under age 21. Unlicensed individuals may not sell or transfer a handgun or ammunition to anyone under age 18, with some exceptions.
For long guns or rifles: Licensed firearms dealers may not sell or deliver to anyone younger than age 18. There are no restrictions for sales or transfers of long guns or rifles from unlicensed individuals.
There are provisions in Texas state law regarding the illegal sale or transfer of firearms that underscore federal regulations. 
