June 2, 2022
Fact check roundup: What's true and what's false about the mass school shooting in Uvalde, Texas.
An array of sometimes conflicting information has emerged since a mass shooting left 19 elementary school students and two teachers dead and injured 17 others, at a Uvalde, Texas, elementary school. Officials' statements about the day of the shooting have shifted, policymakers and voters have debated gun control and high levels of emotion about the shooting have all combined to create an environment ripe for the spread of misinfomation. 
USA TODAY's fact check team has analyzed an array of false and misleading claims related to the Uvalde tragedy, including assertions about the gunman, the nature of the shootings and gun policy in the U.S.
Follow us: Like our Facebook page to get updates throughout the day on our latest debunks
Here's a rundown of our Uvalde fact checks.
Claim: The Uvalde shooting was a false flag operation
Our rating: False
Baseless conspiracy theories frequently and wrongly claim high-profile events were false flag operations, and such theories have been spread about both the Sandy Hook Elementary and Robb Elementary school shootings. However, numerous eyewitness accounts and statements from Texas officials show the Uvalde attack was not staged. Read more.
Claim: Interviews with two men tied to same Uvalde victim show they are crisis actors 
Our rating: False
After two different men were identified as the father of Uvalde shooting victim Amerie Jo Garza in separate television news interviews, social media users spread posts calling the men "crisis actors," a term that conspiracy theorists use to claim victims of mass shootings and their families are actually actors paid to fake the event. This isn't true – one of the men is Garza's biological father and the other is her stepfather. Read more.
Claim: CNN reported same man's death in Afghanistan and Uvalde elementary school shooting
Our rating: False
A Facebook post claimed CNN had "recycle(d) the same crisis actor" by reporting the death of a man named "Bernie Gores" in both Uvalde and Afghanistan, but CNN did not report the death of a person with that name at either location. The purported CNN Afghanistan tweet featured in the post was from an impostor account. Read more.
The claim: A representative of Gov. Greg Abbott offered to pay the family of a Uvalde victim to oppose gun restrictions
Our rating: False
An anonymous Twitter user who claimed to be the uncle of a victim of the Uvalde school shooting garnered the sympathy and outrage of tens of thousands of social media users, but he has since said the claim is false. Read more.
Claim: An off-duty Border Patrol agent killed the Texas school shooting suspect
Our rating: False
Tens of thousands of users online shared a post claiming that off-duty CBP officer Jacob Albarado took down the suspected gunman at Robb Elementary School. However, Albarado was not part of the tactical team that shot Salvador Ramos. He helped children evacuate from the building, but he never went inside the school. Read more.
Claim: ICE is conducting immigration enforcement at the scene of the Texas shooting
Our rating: False
Immigration and Customs Enforcement was at the scene to provide assistance to victims and families and did not conduct immigration enforcement-related activities on site, officials said. Read more.
Claim: Image shows Sen. Ted Cruz uses a Twitter template for mass shootings
Our rating: Altered
USA TODAY found no evidence that Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, has a Twitter template he uses in response to mass shootings. The tweets in the image are manipulated versions of a May 24 tweet Cruz shared in response to the Uvalde shooting. The collage presented in the claim shows supposed identical tweets, but those are not found on any of Cruz's Twitter accounts. Read more.
Claim: Texas shooting suspect Salvador Ramos was transgender
Our rating: False
The viral post at the heart of this claim misidentifies an image of a transgender woman as Salvador Ramos, the Uvalde, Texas, shooting suspect. We found no evidence Ramos was transgender. Read more.
Claim: Texas elementary school shooting suspect, Salvador Ramos, was an 'illegal alien'
Our rating: False
The Texas governor and a state senator confirmed the shooting suspect was a U.S. citizen, born in North Dakota. Read more.
Claim: The US has had 288 school shootings while other countries had two or less
Our rating: Missing context
The United States has a significantly higher number of school shootings than other countries, but a claim uses outdated statistics to make the point. The data cited in the post tallies only shootings from 2009 to 2018. One database of shootings before and after that time frame pushes the tally past 2,000 school shootings in the U.S. Read more. 
Claim: The NRA banned guns at its annual conference
Our rating: Partly false
Tens of thousands of people shared claims that the National Rifle Association had banned guns at a conference held the weekend after the Uvalde shooting, but this wasn't the case. The NRA authorizes visitors to the conference to legally carry firearms and did not order any bans or limitations on its policy. Rather, the Secret Service enforced its own ban on guns at an event where former President Donald Trump spoke. Read more.
Claim: Texas doesn't have a hotline for suspected school shootings, but does have a hotline for reporting women entering Planned Parenthood
Our rating: False
The number 911 serves as a hotline for reporting emergencies and would handle reports of an armed gunman entering a school, the National 911 Program said, and Texas doesn't have a hotline for reporting women who enter Planned Parenthood. The viral tweet was based on a now-defunct website for anonymous tips related to Texas' fetal heartbeat ban. Read more.
Claim: There is no background check to buy 10,000 rounds of ammunition, but if you buy Sudafed you go in a national database
Our rating: Partly false
Experts say the comparison between a supposed national database for Sudafed purchases and the lack of a background check for ammunition oversimplifies on both counts. Some states do have background checks for ammunition purchases, and while purchases of Sudafed require names to be logged either electronically or in a written log, there is no comprehensive national database for such purchases. Read more.
Claim: Students in Israel can carry guns to class
Our rating: False
Some social media posts claimed Israel doesn't have school shootings because students carry guns to class, featuring a photo of group of women carrying firearms and wearing casual attire to back it up. But officials told USA TODAY students in Israel are not permitted to carry guns to class, and experts said the picture presented as proof shows soldiers, not students. Read more.
The claim: Biden once said he 'never believed' more gun control or federal registration would reduce crime
Our rating: True
An array of widespread Facebook spots spotlighted a comment made by President Joe Biden during a 1985 Senate floor session in which he said, "I have never believed that additional gun control or federal registration of guns would reduce crime." Biden did say that. He has also gone on to advocate for gun control measures including a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. Read more.
Thank you for supporting our journalism. You can subscribe to our print edition, ad-free app or electronic newspaper replica here.
Our fact-check work is supported in part by a grant from Facebook.
